oh my name is Eric Rowley and welcome
back to Crowley's granit TV you know
there are a lot of factors to consider
when thinking about buying granite
countertops and there are a lot of
technical elements of the project that
you need to consider when you are
selecting your fabricator and
understanding that there are a lot of
different approaches to accomplishing
certain tasks during the fabrication
process so today we're going to talk
about the proper way and we're going to
show you the ramifications of the
improper way of installing and attaching
a stainless steel or composite
undermount sink
[Music]
well first let's chat about the improper
installation techniques one of the most
common approaches that we see when we're
called out to do warranty work on other
projects is the adhesive technique where
the fabricator simply applies a layer of
adhesive usually a silicone caulk to the
flange of the sink the sink is clamped
to the stone around the undermount sink
opening when the adhesive dries the
clamps are pulled off and by appearances
you would think that the sink was
properly installed but generally that
installation will only stand up for a
period of time before the moisture
around the sink area the weight of the
garbage disposal humming down underneath
the sink begins to separate that
adhesive bond and when you have that the
sink basically delaminates from the
countertop and creates a giant void that
is why stainless steel sink and
composite sink manufacturers recommend
in fact they would require by the fact
that they send a clip system with the
sink so that the sink is mechanically
anchored to the countertop now the
advantage to using the clip system and
mechanically anchoring the sink is first
and foremost because of the strength and
durability of the clip system the sink
is never going to delaminate in a
hundred years you will never find a sink
separating from the countertop not that
we would ever recommend this but in most
applications you could probably get in
the sink and stand it the other
advantage to using the clip system is in
the event of a failure if the sink was
defective or if you dropped a big pot or
a big knife into the sink and damaged
the sink to the point where it had to be
replaced the only process necessary is
to backup a number of wingnuts remove
the clips drop the sink out from
underneath and reinstall a brand new one
so first to show you how the clip system
or the mechanical anchor works we cut a
groove into the back of the stone around
the perimeter of the flange on the
underside of the countertop so that this
bolt can slide down into that groove and
be permanently and securely attached
[Music]
and to illustrate the point of how
important it is to use this mechanical
anchoring system we received a call a
couple of weeks ago from a customer
whose sink was beginning to separate
from the countertop upon inspection we
realized that the adhesive installation
technique had been used and not
surprisingly her sink was beginning to
delaminate from the countertop a very
costly warranty what is this going to
cost and that was a scary thought
because it looked like a big deal to me
[Music]
I would advise them to first look on
Angie's List for someone highly
recommended there I would look at their
references from other customers previous
customers I would also look at their
reputation with other contractors
I called Crowley's because I looked on
Angie's List for a plumber I thought I
would need a flower several plumbers
told me that they wouldn't touch it
because of the granite one plumber on
Angie's List said they work with
crowley's granite often that they are
very good that they're very gentle do an
excellent repair job and they take their
time they don't rush so that they're
sure not to crack the granite
[Music]
that's they did a wonderful job I am so
pleased and the sink even looks shinier
I would definitely recommend Crowley's
granite again they were they were
wonderful to work with made me feel
confident and look at the result great
[Music]
you